---
title: iOS Basis
layout: post
tags: iOS
published: false
---


# Basic points  
1. MRC and ARC, what, how to use, why 

2. autorelease pool  

3. autorelease pool vs MRC vs ARC  

4. In Multi-level autorelease pool, which level does the object release  

5. block and block impleamentation, how does it work  

6. deep coyp vs copy  

7. strong, weak, retain, atomic

8. how does weak work

9. what will the system do if no weak and atomic  

10. how to guarantee message not lost when send/recv in IM system

11. IM system database table design  

12. C++ reference vs pointer  

13. HTTP protocol status 30X stands for  

14. what is runloop and how does it work，runloop有几种状态 

15. multitread and in iOS  

16. category vs extension, how does iOS implement category  

17. discuss message forward mechanism  

18. event response chain and how to response event not included in view  

19. UI performance optimization in iOS  

20. 属性和成员变量的区别

# Projects related questions  
1. 界面卡顿的解决方案和思路  
 - 增量更新, 内存缓存， 本地缓存  
 - rich text 绘制，Context framework  
 - video clip, edit and recording, how to impl 
 - rstp, HLS, rtmp protocols, token protocols
 - DLNA screen casting protocol, soap, how to detect and response when video box disconnected, 

2. video playing AVPlayer framework
 - how does AVPlayer monitor video buffer status?  
 - issues eg: sequences out of order when loopback or drag
 - 1st frame for some encode video slow  
 - KVO pattern is not flexible
 - buffer progress cannot be controlled  
 - short video clip buffer to the end quickly
 - question: in poor network, how to keep playing video after 1st frame played? increase buffer size? wait until n frames to play, 码率切换

 - 


